File 1: searchInRotatedSortedArray, tackles a challenge where we are required to design an algorithm that efficiently locates a specific target value within an array that ahas been sorted in ascending order and rotated at an unknown pivot point. For this we need to use a binary search algorithm. We start by defining a python function called 'search' with two parameters 'nums' and 'target', nums is the var name of the rotatated ascending ordered list which we will be iterating through to find the target value, 'target' also in the same way is also the user input value that we'll be searching for in the list, these tow parameters are the heart of our algorithm, in the defined function we'll need a loop that goes through all the elements of the list, we'll define two pointer variables, one for for the lest side of the array, one for the right, these pointers give the while loop a range with with to iterate through and find the target, for a binary search algorithm we need to split the list in question into two, we do that by creating midpoint 'mid' by dividing the total length of the list by 2. We start searching for the target at the midpoint index, if the value of the midpoint is the same as the target, then there's no need to continue going through the other elements, if not we continue with the algorithm,(i) we use an if statement to check if the left pointer is less than or equal to the midpoint, if yes we check if the the target is on that side of the list(left side), if the target is there we move the right pointer to midpoint and search through it, if not we move the left pointer to the midpoint and search the other side of the list for the target. If the left pointer is greater than or equal to the midpoint, if yes we check if the target is on the other side of the list(right side), if it is we move the left pointer to the midpoint, if not we move the right pointer to the midpoint to search that side.
These instructions cover all scenarios to ensure we locate the target even if the list itself is rotated at an unknown pivot point. 
The function returns -1 if the target is not found.
We finish of by testing our algorithm by presenting a list to test its functionality. We create a user input function to get the user's input on which target element they would like to find, and finally print the result for the user to see.

Problem Solved:
1. Design an algorithm that finds a specific target in array that has been sorted and rotated at an unknown pivot point.


File 2: ternary_search, is the solution to a challenge where we are required to find a specific target element in a sorted array. We begin by defining a python function 'ternary_search' with two parameters 'arr' and 'target', these two parameters contain the array to be searched and the target element(input) we are looking for. The next section we need to define a range of the array(start and finish). We use a while loop to iterate through the array, the condition of the loop is as long as the left pointer is less than or equal to right, to ensure we go through every element in the list. A ternary search works by splitting the array in 3 parts and then secludes parts that dont have the target element, this is a very efficient way of searching for elements. We continue by defining variables for the two midpoints splitting the array(mid1 and mid2). We create an if loop to check if the target element is equal to either of the midpoints, if not we continue to iterate through the part of the array with the element, to figure out which part that is  we create another if statement to find out where in the 3 sections of the array is the element(left part, middle or right part). If the loop(in the function) runs through this entire algorithm without finding the target element, the function returns -1,if not it will return the index of the target element. We finish of by passing an array of ordered integers to test our alg, for the target value we use an input function to get the user choice on which target number are they looking for, we define another var 'index' to hold the returned value of the function. we use an if statement with 2 different print statements, one in the case where we didn't find the target element and one for a case where we found the target element. 

Problem Solved:
1. Create a python ternary search algorithm for searching a target in a sorted array.